READ_ME.txt

COrVID1920 MATLAB plotting and analysis tool.

This script downloads current data from two sources - a data set collected
by the NYTimes located at:
https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data
and data collected by the Covid Tracking Project located at:
https://github.com/COVID19Tracking
-or-
https://covidtracking.com/

User is prompted for download of fresh data, which will automatically be 
saved locally in .csv files, otherwise previously saved local data is used.
Main body of the script is contained in 'COrVID_v2b.m', and various input 
parameters are contained/edited in 'InputVars.m', 'CustomAreas.m', and 
'CustomMetros.m' which should be present in local directory.  An 
assortment of tables in .csv format are used to read and/or write 
necessary data, & should also be present in local directory.

Source data begins at 1/21/20 for the NYT dataset and at 1/22/20 for the 
Covid Tracking Project dataset.  Note that the second of these sets has, 
at times, been prepended to add data for earlier dates, which has the 
effect of pushing 'startdate' backwards in time.  Earler versions of this 
script have used start dates in March and February and care should be 
taken by the user to ensure that the correct value is used.  As of 
4/24/20, all of these online data sets appear to be updated daily.  
County-level data is imported & analyzed but should be used with some 
caution, as certain sets of county numbers may be skewed depending on the 
availablity of medical/testing facilities in other nearby counties.  See 
also the issue of so-called "independent cities" and their FIPS 
classification.  

Custom areas are generated by summing up the total cases for a number of 
specified states.  See 'CustomAreas.m' for how that works.  Custom metros 
are generated by summing up the total cases for a number of specified 
counties.  See 'CustomAreas.m' for how that works.

A note on geographical identifiers/geocodes:
States and counties use unique 2-digit (state) or 5-digit (county) Federal
Information Processing Standards (FIPS) codes. For 5-digit (county) FIPS 
codes, the first 2 digits are equal to the 2-digit FIPS code for the state 
within which that county lies.  US Divisions and Regions use US Census 
numerical identifiers.  Look-up tables with the right formatting are 
stored/accesed locally in .csv format.  See 'state-geocodes-v2017.xlsx' 
or 'state-geocodes.csv' for user reference as to how 
states/regions/divisions are numbered.  See 'all-geocodes-v2017.xlsx' or 
'all-state-geocodes.csv' for county numbering.

A note on Metro areas.  
For the examples tabulated, the counties included in a given metro area 
are determined as defined by the appropriate U.S. Census "Metropolitan 
Statistical Area" or sometimes the Census "Combined Statistical Area".  
The notable exceptions are so-called "independent cities" which are not 
officially part of any county and, as such, do not have a 5-digit 
county-level FIPS designation.  These cities can, however, serve as the 
seat of a county which they are adjacent to, or surrounded by, but to 
which they do not belong.  (Because, hey, why the hell not, right?)  Data 
from these cities are therefore NOT included in tallies here, for the time 
being.  There are 40 of these cities in the U.S. - Baltimore, St. Louis 
and 38 other cities/towns in Virginia, which has an independent city 
clause in its state constitution.  Way to go Virginia.  You just had to be 
different for the sake of being different, didn't you?  Now you get to sit 
in the corner with Baltimore and St. Louis and eat lunch in silence by 
yourselves, while everybody else gets their COVID-19 data analyzed.  At 
least they probably had good reason for doing what they did.  If you're 
nice, maybe St. Louis will share some of his BBQ.  Be warned, however - if 
you're not nice, he'll make you eat some of of his pizza...

Stuff you need:
'all-geocodes.csv'
'all-geocodes-v2017.xlsx'
'COrVID1920_v2b.m'
'CustomAreas.m'
'CustomMetros.m'
'division-codes.csv'
'fips-codes.csv'
'fips-county-codes.csv'
'InputVars.m'
'READ_ME.txt'
'state-demographics.csv'
'region-codes.csv'
'state-geocodes.csv'
'state-geocodes-v2017.xlsx'
'testingST.csv'
'testingUS.csv'
'us-counties.csv'
'us-states.csv

Carl Andersen
University of Alaska Fairbanks
csandersen@alaska.edu
